welcome to another video today we'll be
taking a look at very commonly used and
popular option trading strategy namely
straddlers yeah and let's get started
there are two different types of
straddles on the one side we have short
straddles and on the other side way for
long straddles short Strether's are set
up by selling and at the money cool and
spy selling and at the money put and the
setup of a long straddle is basically
the same with the only difference being
that you buy the two options instead of
selling them and all options should be
on the same underlying asset that should
also all have the same expiration date
and for straddles all the options should
be at the same strike price now when
selling a straddle or going short you
will collect a credit and when you open
a long straddle position you'll have to
pay a debit so you have to pay to open a
long straddle and you will receive money
to open a short straddle position now
let us take a closer look at Short and
lock straddles shorts rattles are
neutral also range bound strategy
meaning that the price of the underlying
asset has to stay between a certain
range for the straddle to be become
profitable long straddles on the other
hand are a prized in different strategy
meaning that you don't care in which
direction the price of the underlying
asset moves as long as it moves here's
the payoff diagram of short straddle and
the payoff diagram of a long straddle
I'll explain the two payoff diagrams a
little bit more in a few seconds but
before that let's look at the setup of
the two strategies once again like I
said before shorts rels require you to
sell and add the money call and and add
the money put long strands however
require you to buy and have the money
cool and enough money put option I'll
mark the sold options and the board
options with a red and a green cross on
the payoff diagrams as we now know house
trails are set up we can dive into the
profit and
behavior of straddles to do that we'll
take a closer look at the payoff diagram
now for a short straddle to become
profitable the price of the underlying
asset has to stay in a certain range if
the underlying assets price moves out of
this range the straddle will become a
losing position long straddles on the
other hand would profit from a big move
in any direction but if the price of the
underlying asset does not move out of
this range the long straddle would
become a losing position as you can see
on the payoff diagram of a short
straddle short straddle are a defined
profit and undefined risk strategy
meaning that you can't win more than a
certain amount of money but your loss is
theoretically unlimited as you can see
in the payoff diagram of long straddles
this is exactly the other way around
long straddles are undefined profit and
defined risk strategies the further the
price of the underlying asset moves the
bigger the profit becomes the max profit
for short strolls can be calculated by
subtracting the Commission's from the
premium collected this same calculation
can be used to calculate the max loss of
a long straddle as there's no max loss
for short swells you can't calculate it
the same goes for the max profit of a
long shredder I will now present an
example for both a long and a short
straddle to simplify this let's say the
underlying asset is XYZ XYZ is trading
for $150 the XYZ 150 call option is
trading for around four point nine
dollars and the XYZ 150 put option is
trading for around five point one
dollars if you sell these two options to
create a short straddle the net credit
collected will be around ten dollars
this means that the max profit for the
short straddle is $1,000 - Commission's
this is because you have to multiply the
net credit by 100 for each contract
because one standard option contract
controls 100 shares of stock if we buy
the exact same straddle we would the max
loss for that straddle would also be
$1,000 now the only thing left
calculating each other to break even
points these are very important as well
to calculate the break-even point all
you have to do is add or subtract the
net credit or debit depending on if you
sell or buy at the struggle to the
strike price let's do this with our
example straddle for example straddle
the strike price we chose was 150 so all
we have to do is add 10 dollars to that
to find out what the the opéra
break-even point is so the opéra
break-even point is $160 and the lower
breakeven point is one out $40 as you
hopefully can see the credit collected
will push out the breakeven points so
that the stock or underlying asset has
room to move in this is good for shorts
rolls but rather bad for long strolls
now I present what market assumption you
should have when trading short or long
straddles as we discussed earlier short
and long straddles are both neutral
strategies but a big difference is that
short straddle are range bound
strategies and long straddles are priced
in different strategies this may sound
similar but it really isn't short
sterols profit from small moves and
Long's Rell's profit from very big moves
in the underlying assets price therefore
shorts traders are rather high
probability strategy and long straddles
usually have a relatively low
probability of profit
I mark the profitable zones on the to
payoff diagrams below so that you can
see what I mean with this the more the
options cost the further out the
break-even points will be this is good
for shorts release but bad for long
struggles because the underlying assets
price has to move more now let us take a
look at the grease Greeks are very
important when trading options they
indicate changes in the options price
for changes in certain factories this
table indicates our different option
positions react to changes the different
factors Delta indicates directional risk
Vega stands for volatility theta for
time decay gamma for change in Delta in
the hole for changes in interest rates
but more on that in a few seconds as
shorts trellis consists of a short call
and a short put the two last rows are
relevant for short straddles the two
upper rows are relevant for long
straddles as they consists of a long
call and a long put option I will now go
over in the Greeks and their impact on
straddles one by one Delta measures the
directional risk for strategy it
measures the trench in the options price
for every $1 move up in the underlying
asset but because of straddles are over
neutral strategies their Delta is around
zero the next week is Vega it measures
the changes in the options price for one
percent increase in implied volatility
short straddles profit from a decrease
in implied volatility and long straddles
profit from an increase in per implied
volatility therefore it's a good idea to
sell straddles when plot volatility is
high at by threads where implied
volatility is low to know if implied
volatility is low or high you should use
IV rank
if IV rank is under 50 then implied
volatilities low and if we rank is over
50 implied volatility is high when
implied volatilities high you will
collect more premium when selling
straddles and therefore your break-even
points will be further out this will
lead to a higher probability of profit
another very important option greed is
theater theater measures time decay it
measures the change in the object price
for the passing of one day short
straddles profit from time passing long
straddles however don't in fact long
straddle even lose some of their value
every day therefore time is a very
important aspect to consider time decay
isn't linear either it increases the
closer you get to expiration gamma
measures the rate of change of delta
gamma is negative for short swells and
positive for long straddles gamma also
increases the closer you get to
expiration o major changes for interest
rates but this really isn't important as
long as you aren't trading very
long-term options also known as leaps in
conclusion I think shorts Rather's are a
very good strategy there should ideally
be entered when IV rank is over 50 so
that we can take in enough credit this
will move out the break-even point and
increase the probability of profit I
also recommend taking profit at around
50 percent of max profit as the max
profit will rarely be achieved because
to achieve max profit the underlying
assets price has to be exactly at the
strike price
a good time frame to open short
straddles is 30 to 45 days before
expiration this will allow you to take
best advantage of time decay but note
that shorts trellis are relatively
capital intensive because they are
undefined risk strategy long straddles
can also be good for big moves for
example for announcements or events but
optimally you should enter them when IV
rank is under 50 so that that don't cost
you too much but honestly I don't really
have too much experience with long
straddle therefore I can't really
recommend too many things for them my
personal favorite of these two is
definitely show it straddles I really
hope you enjoyed this video so thanks
for watching if you have any comments
feedback questions or whatever please
let me know in the comment section below